Amazon Machine Learning Scientist | Day 1

Hey Guys,  Time for me to start with the new course. Currently i am following the Amazon's Machine Learning Scientist Course from AWS Educate. Here is what all I learnt today: 
Day 1:
ML Models are divided into 3 parts:
a) Supervised Learning (Making a Prediction)- Predict future outcomes with help of training from historic data.
b) Unsupervised Learning (Finding a hidden pattern) - Finding out the hidden patterns without giving any external input apart from the raw data
c) Reinforcement Learning (Decision Making based on past rewards)- Takes decision based on the past rewards for its actions

Supervised Learning: 
a. Used to predict future outcomes based on the historic data. g Spam mail detection.
b. An example could be Email Spam Filtration
c. Machine works based on series of Question and Answer format, while analyzing historic data.

Unsupervised Learning:
a. An example would be Face Recognition; like friend photo suggestion in Facebook whence uploading any photo.
b. It works by finding out Patterns, Similarities or anomalies in data.
c. It works on observations and is able to find Structures and Relationships among input data.
d. Talking about Facebook, when a photo is uploaded, it matches the Face and Features of the Friends in your list and suggests friends which can be tagged.
e. Netflix, Amazon and e-commerce websites use the same method for segregation of items.
Reinforcement Learning: 
a. Takes decision based on the past rewards for its actions
b. Usually it is used to increase the efficiency of tool / program There are 3 stages involved namely:  i. Decision 
ii. Feedback
iii. Learning
e.g. In chess, the machine suggests a move (DECISION). It gets to know whether the decision was good/bad one (FEEDBACK). Learns from the feedback and takes the same as input for next iteration.

ML Algorithms: There are several algorithms for Machine Learning out there. However, most of them can be categorized as:

Supervised : Classification and Regression
Unsupervised : Clustering and Association
Classification Algorithms: 
a. Yes/ No Prediction | 0/1 solution or output; these algorithms give a generic output which is in binary format.
b. IT is generally used to classify something into a given class
e.g. Spam filtering:

Samples of Spam and Not Spam mails are fed to machine. 
It analyzes the mails, finds out the words like lottery etc. and also the ones which have been flagged by the user. Now, system learns from it.
Whenever a new mail comes in, it is able to separate them as Spam or Not Spam (Categorical Seperation)
Naive Bayes algorithm is one such algorithm
Regression Algorithm:
a. Such algorithms are used to Predict a value based on past data.
b. Difference is that , we are trying to Predict a VALUE ,whereas in the classification algorithms, we just segregate (separate) data; which is binary.
c. In Regression, relation is created between different variables. i.e. Multiple variables are used (combined) to analyze and produce the output
e.g. Temperature, wind and humidity : predicts whether rain will happen or not.
Remember, output of regression is always Quantitative in nature, mostly based on the past data.

Clustering Algorithm:
a. Algorithm where a set of observations are divided into a subset, known as clusters.  b. Information inside these clusters are similar to each other and are decided based on some parameters.
c. used in E-shopping, healthcare and Financial Services
Classification and Regression have some prior knowledge, but in Clustering,all the knowledge is available from clusters only. e.g. Network Provider : Tower range, local geography and population data are given to system and it learns from it. Further it provides optimal locations for maximum connectivity d. K-Means is a popular clustering algorithm which clusters data into K Clusters

Association Algorithm:
a. identify patters of association between different variables and items.
b. Market Basket analysis
e.g. if you buy a set of books, systems learns and suggests similar kind of books next time you want to buy a book. 
e.g. Similarly, in pharma, whenever a new drug is rolled out, prior to that, it is tested against which type of DNA it is sensitive to.

So, above were my notes for the day 1 of my course. Do you have anything to add, please do share them with me.

See you tomorrow!
Happy Learning!
