Machine Learning Scientist - Day 2

https://medium.com/@ashish9853/ml-scientist-day-2-notes-regression-f7c112c81e8f

Hey guys,
Proceeding with the AWS course, there was not much about algorithms or models.  It talked about the products from AWS and their power.
So I decided to take out some time and re-visit my Deep Learning NanoDegree course from Udacity and read more about Regression.
Today’s notes are going to be on and around this topic.

Regression:
Regression in general terms means, ‘to return to a former or less developed state’.
In Statistical Modelling, Regression Analysis is used for estimating the relations among the variables.
In Machine Learning, it is the approach used to predict or forecast the outcomes based on the relations among the variables in the data-set.
To remind, Regression is a type of Supervised Learning algorithm. 
Rain prediction, House Pricing Prediction, Traffic Prediction etc are the common examples which are solved with the help of Regression.
The Regression is majorly divided into 2 categories: Linear and Non-Linear Regression.
Regression in simple mathematical format may be described as:
A variable Y, which is the dependent (a.k.a.target) variable is related to the independent variable X (Linear Regression) or multiple variables X1, X2, X3,... ,Xn (Non Linear Regression) along with some unknown parameters C.
The independent variables are also known as Regressors.

A regression model relates Y to a function of X and c.
						Y ~ f(X,c)
Mathematically, 
Linear Regression: 				Y = mX+c
Where, Y is the linearly dependent variable linearly related to independent variable X and some weight c.
					Total Cost = Fixed Cost + Variable Cost
Multi - Linear Regression:  			Y = m1X1 + m2X2 + m3X3 +... mnXn + c; 
Where Y is the linearly dependent variable related to independent variables X1,X2,X3,..., Xn and some weight c.
Amount = (Principal x Rate) x Time +  Principal
Non - Linear Regression:			Y = m1X13 + m2X2 + c
Where Y is the non linearly dependent variable related to independent variables X1,X2,X3,..., Xn and some weight c. 
			Area = π x radius2

Happy Learning!
